 Technology is changing your customer … and your customer will change your company”. Join Alpha Media Holdings in partnership with iWayAfrica as they host Stafford Masie, for breakfast, as he explores what the technological changes Warren Buffet alluded to. This exclusive breakfast is only open to individuals involved in shaping the strategic direction of your organisation, such as CEOs, board members and senior executives. Stafford Masie, outlines key technological trends; globally and most importantly their relevance to the African continent. He will explore the evolution of the ICT sector within the SADC region and discuss key impacts we should expect to see over the next 3-5 years. Masie will also outline the challenges and opportunities the changes present throughout various business sectors. Not only will generic insights be discussed but he will also reference significant projects he has been involved in, internationally and locally. Who isMasie?  A self-confessed serial entrepreneur and angel investor, he has been in the IT industry for more than 19 years. He completed his tertiary Computer Science studies in Israel, worked within the largest networks at Telkom, Dimension Data and thereafter established a successful software engineering services company which was later acquired. Masie worked for 8 years in the USA at Novells head office in Utah as a Global Corporate Technology Strategist.  On his return to South Africa he assumed the role of country manager of Novell and thereafter developed, established and launched Google South Africa. Masie has funded and initiated several leading edge technology startups, is involved in hand-picked consulting projects and is internationally recognised as a disruptive strategist and technology futurist. Due to his vast experience engaging with executive management in large blue chip companies, as they wrestle with this “new world”, Masie will provide valuable learnings to all attending CEO’s, board members and chairman of boards including senior executives. In addition to his busy life in the IT world, Masiespassions include being a professional speaker, private pilot, microlite pilot, snow skier, scuba dive master and building arduino-based unmanned aerial vehicles. For a registration form contact Olga Muteiwa or TapwiaTaodzera
Tel: 04 773930-8 or Email:
omuteiwa@alphamedia.co.zw or ttaodzera@alphamedia.co.zw